---
title: Read, Think, Do
published: 2025-11-14T17:59:49.321Z
description: ''
updated: ''
tags:
  - blog
  - book
  - thought
draft: false
pin: 0
toc: true
lang: 'en'
abbrlink: ''
---

# Read, Think, Do's

I have been engrossed by the book "Fahrenheit 451" written by author Ray Bradbury. Its dystopian texts illustrates the need for one to read, think and do. Being able to form complex thoughts and decision through a system of reading and consuming meaningful media. This resonate's with me in a deeper when then I would have ever originally thought.

Near the end of 2025 I find my peers and myself stuck in an attention economy, where we share and spread third hand knowledge. Retelling information multiple times, removing the sources granularity. A complex research project distilled down to a 15 second snippet. Truly it is to be believed that you cannot hold a meaningful opinion without first understanding all aspects of the argument being made. The opinion of 10000 men is of no value if none of them know anything about the subject.

To quote Ray Bradbury; "Number one, as I said, quality of information. Number two: leisure to digest it. And number three: the right to carry out actions based on what we learn from the inter-action of the first two."

It would be a waste of data to try and rewrite how eloquently the point above has been laid out by Bradbury. Instead looking into my own life I can try and adjust my personal schedule to at least do this cycle of read, think, do at least once a day.

Reading, for me can be classified either through textbook, article and blogpost or any other form of long format content. A portion of time in the early part of the day must be dedicated to this. By doing so it gives me time for reflection later on. Also I find it to be quite pleasurable with a perfectly brewed cuppa tea.

Thinking, I find takes forms in 10 minute guided meditations or an hour walk during lunchtime around a nearby park. Stepping out of the reading environment and into another i've found has really helped me develop complex ideas from the base principles I read during texts. Not only the literal environment change helps refresh the idea from a new perspective, but largely I find if I can see this newly acquired knowledge in the real world it sticks better.

Do-ing, means applying knowledge in practical terms. Using a new piece of financial trading model to a simulated market, writing a computer science algorithm from scratch; Knowledge is useless without application. On many occasions i've observed my brain only truly gains expertise over a concept and through using it effectively in the real world.

Still being early in my career and life I have yet to achieve mastery in any skill, however I do have a sneaking suspicion that repeating this cycle of read, think and do over a lifetime can one day help me achieve the coveted goal of being a master within a domain of knowledge.
